---
layout: post
title:  "How to run Plex with rootless Podman"
date:   2024-06-23 19:56:00 -0700
categories: podman plex
---
# Introduction
In this blog entry I share how I configured my [Fedora](https://fedoraproject.org/) 40 server to run Plex as a rootless Podman container.

[Podman](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/) is an open source tool that runs [OCI](https://opencontainers.org/) compliant containers. This includes containers hosted at [docker hub.](https://hub.docker.com/) Podman can run containers in user accounts (ie. non-root accounts).

[Plex](https://www.plex.tv/) lets you stream and share multimedia files. The nice thing about Plex is that it's supported on Apple TV and numerous other devices like set-top boxes and smart TVs.

# Overview
Here are the tasks required to set up the Plex container to run as a user owned service with Podman.

0. Open firewall ports on container host.
1. Install podman.
2. Create the Plex systemd unit file.
3. Create the persistent volume unit files.
4. Enable the podman service.
5. Enable automatic updates to the Plex container.

# Open firewall ports on container host

Run the following.
```bash
sudo firewall-cmd --add-port=1900/udp --add-port=5353/udp --add-port=8324/tcp --add-port=32410/udp --add-port=32412/udp --add-port=32413/udp --add-port=32414/udp --add-port=32469/tcp --permanent
```
This command loads a configuration to open all the specified ports.

Then run the following to load the changes.
```bash
sudo firewall-cmd --reload
```

# Install Podman
First, install Podman.

```terminal
sudo dnf -y install podman
```

# Create the `Plex` `systemd` unit file

The official documentation for the Plex container can be found [here](https://hub.docker.com/r/plexinc/pms-docker/).

Podman enables you to run containers as a service in a non-root account. We need to create a `systemd` unit file in our user account `myee`. We'll call it `plex.container`.

```terminal
vim ~/.config/containers/systemd/plex.container
```

Here's what's inside the `plex.container` file.

```yaml
[Service]
Restart=always

[Container]
ContainerName=plex
Image=docker.io/plexinc/pms-docker:latest
Label="io.containers.autoupdate=registry"
Environment=TZ=America/Vancouver
Environment=VERSION=docker
Volume=plex-config.volume:/config:Z
Volume=plex-tv.volume:/tv:Z
Volume=plex-movies.volume:/movies:Z
PublishPort=32400:32400/tcp
PublishPort=1900:1900/udp
PublishPort=5353:5353/udp
PublishPort=8324:8324/tcp
PublishPort=32410:32410/udp
PublishPort=32412:32412/udp
PublishPort=32413:32413/udp
PublishPort=32414:32414/udp
PublishPort=32469:32469/tcp

[Install]
WantedBy=default.target
```
## Further explanation of the `plex.container` file.

- `ContainerName=plex`:
This is self-explanatory. This is the name given to the container.

- `Image=docker.io/plexinc/pms-docker:latest`:
Specify that we'll use the official plex container image. The `latest` tag also specifies the latest version of the container.

- `Label="io.containers.autoupdate=registry"`:
This label tells Podman to check for new versions of the container.

- `Environment=TZ=America/Vancouver`:
Sets timezone to `America/Vancouver`.

- - `Volume=plex-config.volume:/config:Z`: Please see the section `Persistent Volumes` below.

- `PublishPort=32400:32400/tcp`: Map container ports to the host ports. Specifically, this key/value pair specifies that port `32400/tcp` of the container can be reached through port `32400` of the container host.

# Persistent Volumes

In the previous section, we specified persistent volumes in the `plex.container` file as below.

```ini
Volume=plex-config.volume:/config:Z
```

If the volume doesn't already exist in `~/.local/share/containers/storage/volumes/`, Podman will create it. This key/value pair tells Podman that the `/config` directory in the container is to be mapped to a persistent volume. `plex-config.volume` is a file that is stored in `~/.config/containers/systemd/` with the `plex.container` file. The `Z` at the end of the `Volume` key/value pair specifies that the persistent volume is private to the `plex` container. `config`, `tv`, and `movies` each require their own volumes as specified by the container publisher Plex.

The volumes can be found here:

```terminal
myee@protectli1 ~> ls .local/share/containers/storage/volumes/
systemd-plex-movies/  systemd-plex-config/  systemd-plex-tv/
```

You must also create 3 files in `~/.config/containers/systemd/`

1. `plex-config.volume`
2. `plex-movies.volume`
3. `plex-tv.volume`

All three contain the following.
```ini
[Volume]
User=<username>
Group=<group>
```

In my example I have the following contents.
```ini
[Volume]
User=myee
Group=myee
```

# Enable the podman service

Load the unit files into systemd.
```bash
systemctl --user daemon-reload
```

Enable and start the Plex service.
```bash
systemctl --user start plex.service
```

# Enable automatic updates

Enable automatic updates.
```bash
systemctl --user enable --now podman-auto-update.service
```

Enable automatic updates to run on schedule at midnight.
```bash
systemctl --user enable --now podman-auto-update.timer
```
